Deployment docs (Cloudstate managed services & self-hosted) (#2)
cloudstateio/samples-ui-chat: docs/deploy-lightbend-cloudstate.adoc

== Prerequisites

The main requirement is to have a Lightbend Cloudstate account and the Cloudstate CLI tool installed. With your account, you are granted a cluster, on which you can deploy your services.

The steps are described in https://docs.lbcs.dev/getting-started/index.html[Getting started with Cloudstate]. We have actually already completed the most time consuming steps as we have already built our services. Here we will just need to setup the prerequisites pertaining to the deployment:

[[signup-cloudstate-account]]
=== Sign-up Cloudstate account

With your Lightbend Cloudstate account, you will be granted a Kubernetes cluster on the cloud. This cluster is managed by Lightbend Cloudstate. It is customized to host services created using the https://github.com/cloudstateio/cloudstate[Cloudstate library].

Instructions: https://docs.lbcs.dev/getting-started/lightbend-account.html[Using a Cloudstate account]

=== Install Cloudstate CLI

`csctl` is the command line tool that you will use to deploy an application on your Cloudstate cluster. Instructions: https://docs.lbcs.dev/getting-started/set-up-development-env.html#_cloudstate_cli[Install Cloudstate CLI]

> The `csctl` minimum version required is 0.0.12 which you can verify by:

Reviewer: Let's recommend the latest
```suggestion
The `csctl` minimum version required is 0.0.16 which you can verify by:
```

[source,shell]
----
$ csctl version

> 0.0.12

Reviewer: ```suggestion
0.0.16
```

----

=== Creating a Cloudstate project

A Cloudstate project is a space within your Cloudstate cluster. In this space, you will deploy your Cloudstate-aware application. In this step we use the Cloudstate CLI `csctl` to:

* Login to your Cloudstate cluster (which you got when signing-up for a <<signup-cloudstate-account,Cloudstate account>>)
* Create a Cloudstate project
* Deploy your services in the project

More details on `csctl` is available at https://docs.lbcs.dev/cli/index.html[csctl reference documentation].

[source,shell]
----
#===STEP1: connect csctl to your Cloudstate account
$ csctl auth login

#===STEP2: create a new Cloudstate project
# Syntax: csctl project new "project-friendly-name" "Project description"
# NOTE: project-friendly-name: no space, only lower case and dash
$ csctl project new chat-application "Chat room app built with Cloudstate services"

Created project b43197f4-5c75-4bac-af18-8b2be7460696.

> To make this the currently active project, run: 'csctl config set project b43197f4-5c75-4bac-af18-8b2be7460696'

Reviewer: The current csctl accepts friendly name:
```suggestion
To make this the currently active project, run: 'csctl config set project chat-application'
```

> To make this the currently active project, run: 'csctl config set project b43197f4-5c75-4bac-af18-8b2be7460696'
> 
> #===STEP3: set the new Cloudstate project as "current"
> $ csctl config set project b43197f4-5c75-4bac-af18-8b2be7460696

Reviewer: The current csctl accepts friendly name:
```suggestion
To make this the currently active project, run: 'csctl config set project chat-application'

#===STEP3: set the new Cloudstate project as "current"
$ csctl config set project chat-application
```
